# How to Drum and Bass

## Tips

1. **Source direct**. _Source great **high quality sounds** directly_ at the beginning of you production.
2. **Clean break**. To fit the breakbeat (the heart and soul of a DnB track) in the context of DnB, it can use some processing aside the timestretching and pitchshifting (required to get them _up to speed_), their frequency content, stereo width an dynamics will need addressing: EQ, noise reduction, multiband compression/gating and width plugins will help you get there.
3. **Kick**. DnB is all about the bass, so don't use a heavy kick on the low end. Use kick's with their main frequency around 90-100Hz and EQ/Filter/Envelope/Transpose out the rest to make room for the bass low end.
4. **Build the drop first**. Most of the time you will start with a intro and then build up, but DnB is all about the drop, so try to build that first. It will give you feedback for the mood of the song. Also you can use little bits of the drop in the intro and breakdown, giving you more inspiration and direction when composing.
5. **Stack attack**. Layer your sounds for a more weighty, powerful and professional '3D sound'. This is ideal for DnB drums.
6. **Ample resampling**. Resampling is the art of exporting out a sound you've processed and/or modulated so you can then re-import the audio back into your DAW or sampler for further processing. Helping you achieve complex twisting movements heard in more aggressive 'neuro' styles of DnB.
7. **Structural damage**. To keep your music DJ friendly give the DJ at least a 32-bar intro to mix your track in and add a hi-hat or filtered beat over breakdowns so spinners have some freedom to mix over the quieter sections of your track.
8. **Move together**. Don't create a mid-range bass layer first and then a a simple sine sub underneath it because this can cause a disparity between the two layers, as the mid's movement will be missing from the static sub. To get around this, **begin with a subby, harmonic moving layer first**, then create gritty mids and highs by duplicating the sub track (or send it to aux/return channels) and distorting/filtering them.
9. **Key point**. Major scales aren't usually employed in drum 'n bass, with most styles favouring the more melancholic minor scales to create a more serious mood. The more evil-sounding forms of **DnB will (also) make use of the pentatonic scale**. To construct this scale, remove the second and sixth notes of the natural minor scale.
10. **Design days**. Dum 'n bass music requires a complex palette of sounds, so you could find yourself getting bogged down in the throes of sound design, killing off inspiration when you're trying to get a track finished. Consider scheduling dedicated sound design sessions so you can craft those complex twisting basses and modulating drones ready for use in a later arrangement session (a lot of great DnB producers separate their sound design, arrangement, etc into separate days, one day they will just create sounds, later they browse thru them to hear if it is going to fit the track that they want to build).
11. **Weight a minute**. When you begin a track, make it a habit to decide upon your root note before adding musical sounds or riffs, as then you'll be sure your sub bass will really punch in the right frequency areas. Try to make some of your bass notes hit around E1 or G1 for maximum bass weight, as relying on too many notes above or below this point can sound too honky or overly flabby.